1.15.25: Subject - What I've learned today
    Today in Software engineering, we went over the basic fundamentals of using local and remote repos with git, which is an essential tool for us in this class, and as programmers in general. We also learned what the importance of communication is with our teams we split up into throught the puzzle activity we did in class. It's important that we communitcate with each other to minimize the amount of confusion when doing projects, and to help boost effeciency in project making.

1.22.25: Subject - Error debugging
    In CS 3005 today, we went over a lesson of how we can effectively read through errors in our code to be able to figure out what part of our code needs to be fixed. I think this is an important skill to have when programming, especially when making larger programs. We went through different anonymous examples of common errors students in the past have had, and went through what the main cause of the error was, and the potential solutions that could fix it.

1.24.25: Subject - CS 3005
    Today we have gone over the importance of using different strategies to help avoid running into issues of classes being defined more than once in the case that a header file has been included more than once. One of the common practices used to help avoid this is by starting a header file with #ifndef _FILE_NAME_H_ and #define _FILE_NAME_H_, then ending the header file with #endif /* _FILE_NAME_H */. Another quicker option to avoid multiple definitions of classes in header files is by using #pragma once at the beginning of the header file.

1.28.25: Subject - Requirements documentation
    Today in CS 2450, we went over the the process and the importance of documenting requirements for projects being done by a team and/or individual. The different parts of a requirements document include the project name, business context, problem statement, scope, assumptions, features, and non-functional requirements. In the business context section we want to include information on the overall idea of the project and who its tailored towards. The problem statement describes the problem that the project is trying to solve. The scope is what parts are in the scope of the project timeline. What features will be included on release and what features will have to wait/wont be included? The assumptions section states general assumptions to be made about the project. The features section is a description of features to be added to the project. Then finally, the Non-functional requirements are descriptions like how often the servers are going to be ran, what the overall design of the interface will be, what devices will the software be compatible with, etc.

2.7.25: Subject - important concepts learned this week
    This week in software engineering, we learned the importance of diagraming the flow and the compnents of projects you work on in software engineering. The flow diagram should include a start and end point, simple processes (such as picking an item from a menu or verifying info), decisions (points at which a yes or no decision is to be made, with two arrows pointing to the yes and no pathway), and lastly, complex processes (such as external dependencies). Componenet diagrams should include various technologies being used in the software and how they interact with each other. These include the browser, the tool being used for the web server, the tool being used for the database, the content, etc. Then the arrows should be labled with the process being used such as HTTP or local functions just to name a couple.

2.18.25: Subject - impactful presentations
    Last week in sofware engineering, we went over the importance of making impactful presentations. The three main things we should remember when trying to make an impactful presentation is; who is the audience? What are the goals? and following design principles. There are a handful of different design principals and elements that we can use to help make our presentations better, ranging from text size and color. We can use larger text to emphasize certain things, and use bold or italics to help draw attention to certain details. We also went over the importance of color usage. We can use color to set the feel of the presentation, and generally want to use colors that complement well with each other to make them visually appealing. A few color guildines we went over inlcuded things like using red for some kind of alert or problem, highlighting with yellow for changes, using green for good/familiar things, gray for out of scope topics, blue for existing things, and orange for details that need attention or for things are are going to change.

2.23.25: Subject - Merging branches on github
    This past week after finishing our presentations, we went over the steps of merging conflicting braches onto our main branch of our teams repository. We each created our own branch that we must remain making changes to locally and pushing to the remote so that way files don't conflict with each other on the main branch which can cause lots of issues. Making changes to our personal branches allows us to be able to resolve conflicts when trying to merge to the main branch, making sure nothing goes wrong with our main branch causing further issues.s

3.7.25: Subject - progress this week
    So far this week I am happy with the progress I have been able to make with projects ive been working on in CS 2450 and CS 3005. I was able to get the last assignment passed for 3005 for stage 2 of our project. In its current state, I am able to give it the information it needs, and the program will generate a .wav file playing a note based on the information given, which is really cool. For CS 2450 I was able to get the tag system to work on the posts side of things, but still need to get it working on the users side.

3.21.25: Subject - Project progress this week
    In CS 2450 this week, I was able to get a few new features working. I made it so the user can only add the tags to their post that are also attached to their profile. I was also able to get tags attached to user profiles working properly. Upon registering for a new user, the user must select one or more of the tags built in to the application, or else a error message will show saying you must select one or more tags. Once the user selects their tags and registers, their account now has those tags attached to their profile. I also got the tags the user has attached to their profile to display on the side of the feed page under the "my friends" box.

3.26.25: Subject - More progress done on youface project
    Last night, I was able to spend a couple hours putting together the start of a settings page for the users profile. I got a seperate handler file for the functionality made, as well as an html file in templates for the page to show. So far, I have managed to get functionality working for the user to change their username, and change their password. Next, I want to add the ability for the user to add/remove tags from their profile, and also probably add an "are you sure?" warning when changing your username and password.

4.6.25: Subject - Youface progress
    This week, I was able to get progress done adding functionalist for the likes and dislikes button for each post on the site

4.7.25: Subject - Youface progress
    Today, I was able to spend some time adding in a comments feature for each post on the site. Users now have the ability to type up and leave a comment on other users posts.

4.11.25: Subject - Fixed github actions
    Today, I was finally able to get my seleniums tests to run properly on the github actions, as well as getting all of the tests to pass.

4.22.25: Subject - Final touches on Youface project
    Last week, I was able to get the final finishing touches done on the backend of the youface project. I decided to redo the system that was in place for liking/disliking posts to allow for a better way to tell if a user has already liked/disliked a post or not. Instead of just storing the likes/dislikes as a number in the posts data, I decided to store them as a list of the usernames of the users that have liked/disliked the post, then have each post display the length of that list to show the proper number of likes/dislikes. This made it much easier to be able to code it so if the user were to press like on a post they have already liked, I removes their like, and same goes for the dislike button.